#summary How To Use the Rich Editor component
= How To Use =

== Introduction ==

Microsoft-word like editing of text within [http://www.salesforce.com Salesforce.com] and the [http://developer.force.com/gettingstarted Force.com platform]. It is based on the open-source [http://www.fckeditor.net/ fckEditor] created by Frederico Caldeira Knabben. When implemented within a Visualforce page, the end user will have the ability to see and edit text including fonts, colors, alignment, bullets, links, images, and more.

== Installing the Component ==

After downloading richeditor.zip, unzip the contents to a temporary folder. Inside you will find four files described below: 

The first file "fckeditor.zip" contains the implementation of the editor. You must upload this to Salesforce as a static resource. Please name the static resource "fckEditor".

The second file is "richeditor.component". This is just a text file contained the code for the Visualforce component. Copy and past the contents of this file into a new Visualforce component called "RichEditor". Alternatively, you can drag and drop this file along with "richeditor.component-meta.xml" onto the "components" folder of a Force.com project inside the Force.com IDE to install it.

The last file "how-to.txt" contains these instructions.

== Using the Component ==

To use the Rich Editor component within a Visualforce page, simply declare the tag like while assigning a value property that is a text field.

{{{
<c:RichEditor value="{!account.Description}"/>
}}}

Other than the value attribute (required) there are two additional optional attributes:

width - the width of the editor
height - the height of the editor

The editor itself is highly configurable. Most of the configuration options can be changed via a file called "customconfig.js" inside the "fckeditor.zip" file. For more information on what options exist, consult the [http://docs.fckeditor.net/FCKeditor_2.x/Developers_Guide fckeditor developer's guide].